README.md, before:

# DataCamp Guided Projects

A collection of all projects I have done on [DataCamp](https://app.datacamp.com/learn)

### On SQL:
- [__Analyzing NYC Public School Test Result Scores__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Analyzing%20NYC%20Public%20School%20Test%20Result%20Scores)
- [__Exploring the Bitcoin Cryptocurrency Market__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Exploring%20the%20Bitcoin%20Cryptocurrency%20Market)
- [__Optimizing Online Sports Retail Revenue__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Optimizing%20Online%20Sports%20Retail%20Revenue)
- [__Analyze International Debt Statistics__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Analyze%20International%20Debt%20Statistics)
- [__What and Where are the World's Oldest Businesses__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/What%20and%20Where%20are%20the%20World's%20Oldest%20Businesses)
- [__Analyzing American Baby Name Trends__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Analyzing%20American%20Baby%20Name%20Trends)

### On Python:
- [__Investigating Netflix Movies and Guest Stars in The Office__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/Python/Investigating%20Netflix%20Movies%20and%20Guest%20Stars%20in%20The%20Office)
        Here, we discover if Netflix’s movies are getting shorter over time and which guest stars appear in the most popular episode of "The Office", using everything from lists and loops to pandas and matplotlib. 
        
        I also gained experience in an essential data science skill — exploratory data analysis. 

- [__Comparing Search Interest with Google Trends__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/Python/Comparing%20Search%20Interest%20with%20Google%20Trends)
        Time series data is everywhere; from temperature records, to unemployment rates, to the S&P 500 Index. Another rich source of time series data is Google Trends, where you can freely download the search interest of terms and topics from as far back as 2004. This project dives into manipulating and visualizing Google Trends data to find unique insights.
        
        I explored the search data underneath the Kardashian family's fame and made custom plots to find how the most famous Kardashian/Jenner sister has changed over time. This is a guided project

Commit message:

docs: editted README.md
added project descriptions

README.md, after:

# DataCamp Guided Projects

A collection of all projects I have done on [DataCamp](https://app.datacamp.com/learn)

### On SQL:
- [__Analyzing NYC Public School Test Result Scores__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Analyzing%20NYC%20Public%20School%20Test%20Result%20Scores)
        Every year, school test results play a role in deciding the fate of millions of students. In America, the SAT is a major part of the college admissions process. In this project, I worked with a SQL database containing test performance from NYC's public schools. I looked at how performance varies by borough, identify how many schools fail to report information, and find the top ten performing schools across the city!

- [__Exploring the Bitcoin Cryptocurrency Market__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Exploring%20the%20Bitcoin%20Cryptocurrency%20Market)
        To better understand the growth and impact of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, I explored the market capitalization of different cryptocurrencies. Warning: The cryptocurrency market is exceptionally volatile, and any money you put in might disappear into thin air. Never invest money you can't afford to lose.

- [__Optimizing Online Sports Retail Revenue__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Optimizing%20Online%20Sports%20Retail%20Revenue)
        Sports clothing is a booming sector! In this notebook, I used my SQL skills to analyze product data for an online sports retail company. I worked with numeric, string, and timestamp data on pricing and revenue, ratings, reviews, descriptions, and website traffic. I used techniques such as aggregation, cleaning, labeling, Common Table Expressions, and correlation to produce recommendations on how the company can maximize revenue!

- [__Analyze International Debt Statistics__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Analyze%20International%20Debt%20Statistics)
        It's not that we humans only take debts to manage our necessities. A country may also take debt to manage its economy. For example, infrastructure spending is one costly ingredient required for a country's citizens to lead comfortable lives. The World Bank is the organization that provides debt to countries. In this project, I analyzed international debt data collected by The World Bank. The dataset contains information about the amount of debt (in USD) owed by developing countries across several categories. I found the answers to questions like: What is the total amount of debt that is owed by the countries listed in the dataset?, Which country owns the maximum amount of debt and what does that amount look like?, What is the average amount of debt owed by countries across different debt indicators? The data used in this project is provided by The World Bank. It contains both national and regional debt statistics for several countries across the globe as recorded from 1970 to 2015
    
- [__What and Where are the World's Oldest Businesses__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/What%20and%20Where%20are%20the%20World's%20Oldest%20Businesses)
        An important part of business is planning for the future and ensuring that the business survives changing market conditions. Some businesses do this remarkably well and last for hundreds of years. In this project, I explored data from BusinessFinancing.co.uk on the world's oldest businesses: when were they founded, and which industries do they belong to? Like many business problems, the data is contained in several different datasets. In order to understand the world's oldest businesses, I used joining techniques to merge our data. From there, I used manipulation tools such as grouping and filtering to answer questions about these historic businesses.

- [__Analyzing American Baby Name Trends__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/SQL/Analyzing%20American%20Baby%20Name%20Trends)
        What makes a name timeless or trendy? In this project, I used data published by the U.S. Social Security Administration spanning over a hundred years to understand American baby name tastes. The ranking, grouping, joining, ordering, and pattern matching skills I used in this project are broadly applicable: understanding changing tastes is a key competency for businesses as well as parents searching for a baby name!

### On Python:
- [__Investigating Netflix Movies and Guest Stars in The Office__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/Python/Investigating%20Netflix%20Movies%20and%20Guest%20Stars%20in%20The%20Office)
        Here, we discover if Netflix’s movies are getting shorter over time and which guest stars appear in the most popular episode of "The Office", using everything from lists and loops to pandas and matplotlib. I also gained experience in an essential data science skill — exploratory data analysis. 

- [__Comparing Search Interest with Google Trends__](https://github.com/ssarrayya/datacamp-projects/tree/main/Python/Comparing%20Search%20Interest%20with%20Google%20Trends)
        Time series data is everywhere; from temperature records, to unemployment rates, to the S&P 500 Index. Another rich source of time series data is Google Trends, where you can freely download the search interest of terms and topics from as far back as 2004. This project dives into manipulating and visualizing Google Trends data to find unique insights. I explored the search data underneath the Kardashian family's fame and made custom plots to find how the most famous Kardashian/Jenner sister has changed over time. This is a guided project
